Clarify tokenreview API (#24349)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication.md

* `--authentication-token-webhook-config-file` a configuration file describing how to access the remote webhook service.
* `--authentication-token-webhook-cache-ttl` how long to cache authentication decisions. Defaults to two minutes.
* `--authentication-token-webhook-version` determines whether to use `authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1` or `authentication.k8s.io/v1` 

>   `TokenReview` objects to send/receive information from the webhook. Defaults to `v1beta`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `TokenReview` objects to send/receive information from the webhook. Defaults to `v1beta1`.
```

  name: webhook
```

When a client attempts to authenticate with the API server using a bearer token as discussed [above](#putting-a-bearer-token-in-a-request),
the authentication webhook POSTs a JSON-serialized `TokenReview` object containing the token to the remote service.

Note that webhook API objects are subject to the same [versioning compatibility rules](/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/) as other Kubernetes API objects.
Implementers should check the `apiVersion` field of the request to ensure correct deserialization,
and **must** respond with a `TokenReview` object in the same version as the request.

{{< tabs name="TokenReview_request" >}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1" %}}
{{< note >}}
The Kubernetes API server defaults to sending `authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1` token reviews for backwards compatibility.
To opt into receiving `authentication.k8s.io/v1` token reviews, the API server must be started with `--authentication-token-webhook-version=v1`.

> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer 2: Nice use of a callout.

```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "spec": {
    # opaque bearer token sent to the API server
    "token": "014fbff9a07c...",
   
    # optional list of the identifiers the server presented with the token identifies as.
    # Audience-aware token authenticators should verify the token was intended for at least one of the audiences in this list,
    # and include the valid audiences for the token in the response status.
    # If no audiences are provided, the token should be validated for purposes of authenticating to the Kubernetes API server.

>     "audiences": ["https://myserver.example.com", "https://myserver.internal.example.com"]

Reviewer 2: Maybe clarify that the API server is using the OIDC meaning of “audience” here?

(You can work that detail out from reading the whole page and putting this field name into context, but if someone is actually planning to use a different bearer token scheme then that link might not be obvious).

Author: tried to clarify

    # opaque bearer token sent to the API server
    "token": "014fbff9a07c...",
   
    # optional list of the identifiers the server presented with the token identifies as.
    # Audience-aware token authenticators should verify the token was intended for at least one of the audiences in this list,
    # and include the valid audiences for the token in the response status.
    # If no audiences are provided, the token should be validated for purposes of authenticating to the Kubernetes API server.
    "audiences": ["https://myserver.example.com", "https://myserver.internal.example.com"]
  }
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The remote service is expected to fill the `status` field of the request to indicate the success of the login.
The response body's `spec` field is ignored and may be omitted.
The remote service must return a response using the same `TokenReview` API version it was sent.
A successful validation of the bearer token would return:

{{< tabs name="TokenReview_response_success" >}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1" %}}
```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "status": {
    "authenticated": true,
    "user": {

>       "username": "janedoe@example.com",

Reviewer 2: Related to the query about `uid`: is username mandatory? If a success response omits `username`, is that valid? If not, is `""` valid-but-daft?

Author: updated with "required"... I think an empty string might actually be tolerated currently, but I'd consider that a bug we should fix to prevent typos/accidents rather than a feature we should preserve

>       "uid": "42",

Reviewer 2: If possible, it'd be good to clarify a couple of points:
- Is `uid` mandatory?
- How should the token reviewer decide what value to set?

Author: this is described earlier on the page:

> UID: a string which identifies the end user and attempts to be more consistent and unique than username.

  name: webhook
```

When a client attempts to authenticate with the API server using a bearer token as discussed [above](#putting-a-bearer-token-in-a-request),
the authentication webhook POSTs a JSON-serialized `TokenReview` object containing the token to the remote service.

Note that webhook API objects are subject to the same [versioning compatibility rules](/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/) as other Kubernetes API objects.
Implementers should check the `apiVersion` field of the request to ensure correct deserialization,

> and **must** respond with a `TokenReview` object in the same version as the request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and **must** respond with a `TokenReview` object of the same version as the request.
```

{{< tabs name="TokenReview_request" >}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1" %}}
{{< note >}}
The Kubernetes API server defaults to sending `authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1` token reviews for backwards compatibility.
To opt into receiving `authentication.k8s.io/v1` token reviews, the API server must be started with `--authentication-token-webhook-version=v1`.
{{< /note >}}

```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "spec": {
    # opaque bearer token sent to the API server
    "token": "014fbff9a07c...",
   
    # Optional list of the audience identifiers for the server the token was presented to.
    # Audience-aware token authenticators (for example, OIDC token authenticators) 
    # should verify the token was intended for at least one of the audiences in this list,

>     # and include the valid audiences for the token in the response status.

Reviewer 3: Does this mean that the response should include the (nonempty) set intersection of the audiences suggested here and the audiences allowed by the token, or the complete set of audiences allowed by the token, possibly in excess of the audiences suggested here?

Author: clarified it is the intersection

    "audiences": ["https://myserver.example.com", "https://myserver.internal.example.com"]
  }
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1" %}}
```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "spec": {
    # opaque bearer token sent to the API server
    "token": "014fbff9a07c...",
   
    # Optional list of the audience identifiers for the server the token was presented to.
    # Audience-aware token authenticators (for example, OIDC token authenticators) 
    # should verify the token was intended for at least one of the audiences in this list,
    # and include the valid audiences for the token in the response status.
    # This ensures the token is valid to authenticate to the server it was presented to.
    # If no audiences are provided, the token should be validated to authenticate to the Kubernetes API server.
    "audiences": ["https://myserver.example.com", "https://myserver.internal.example.com"]
  }
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The remote service is expected to fill the `status` field of the request to indicate the success of the login.
The response body's `spec` field is ignored and may be omitted.

> The remote service must return a response using the same `TokenReview` API version it was sent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The remote service must return a response using the same `TokenReview` API version that it received.
```

A successful validation of the bearer token would return:

{{< tabs name="TokenReview_response_success" >}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1" %}}
```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "status": {
    "authenticated": true,
    "user": {
      # required
      "username": "janedoe@example.com",
      # optional
      "uid": "42",
      # optional group memberships
      "groups": ["developers", "qa"],

>       # optional additional information provided by the authenticator.
>       # this should not contain confidential data, as it can be recorded in logs
>       # or API objects, and is made available to admission webhooks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      # optional additional information provided by the authenticator
      # This should not contain confidential data, as it can be recorded in logs
      # or API objects, and is made available to admission webhooks.
```
It looks like you're avoiding capitalizing the first word in the phrases describing the following field, but in some cases we then move on to complete sentences.

      "extra": {
        "extrafield1": [
          "extravalue1",
          "extravalue2"
        ]
      }
    },

>     # optional list audience-aware token authenticators can return,
>     # containing the audiences from the `spec.audiences` list for which the provided token was valid.
>     # if this is omitted, the token is considered to be valid to authenticate to the Kubernetes API server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # optional list audience-aware token authenticators can return,
    # containing the audiences from the `spec.audiences` list for which the provided token was valid
    # If this is omitted, the token is considered to be valid to authenticate to the Kubernetes API server.
```

Author: capitalized consistently

      # required
      "username": "janedoe@example.com",
      # optional
      "uid": "42",
      # optional group memberships
      "groups": ["developers", "qa"],
      # optional additional information provided by the authenticator.
      # this should not contain confidential data, as it can be recorded in logs
      # or API objects, and is made available to admission webhooks.
      "extra": {
        "extrafield1": [
          "extravalue1",
          "extravalue2"
        ]
      }
    },
    # optional list audience-aware token authenticators can return,
    # containing the audiences from the `spec.audiences` list for which the provided token was valid.
    # if this is omitted, the token is considered to be valid to authenticate to the Kubernetes API server.
    "audiences": ["https://myserver.example.com"]
  }
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

An unsuccessful request would return:

{{< tabs name="TokenReview_response_error" >}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1" %}}
```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "status": {
    "authenticated": false,
    # optionally include details about why authentication failed.

>     # if "error" is omitted, the API will return a generic Unauthorized message.

Author: updated, the error field is ignored if authenticated is set to true

    "user": {
      "username": "janedoe@example.com",
      "uid": "42",
      # optional group memberships
      "groups": ["developers", "qa"],
      # optional additional information provided by the authenticator.
      # this should not contain confidential data, as it can be recorded in logs
      # or API objects, and is made available to admission webhooks.
      "extra": {
        "extrafield1": [
          "extravalue1",
          "extravalue2"
        ]
      }
    },
    # optional list audience-aware token authenticators can return,
    # containing the audiences from the `spec.audiences` list for which the provided token was valid.
    # if this is omitted, the audience is considered to be the Kubernetes API server.
    "audiences": ["https://myserver.example.com"]
  }
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

An unsuccessful request would return:

{{< tabs name="TokenReview_response_error" >}}
{{% tab name="authentication.k8s.io/v1" %}}
```yaml
{
  "apiVersion": "authentication.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "TokenReview",
  "status": {
    "authenticated": false,

>     # optional details about why authentication failed

Reviewer 2: “optional” here is a little unclear:
 - Does the API allow keys other than `authenticated` and `error`?
 - is `authenticated ` required whereas `error` is optional?

Author: tried to clarify
